---
layout: default
title:  "Useful tools"
date:   2024-11-11 09:26:17 +0100
categories: jekyll update
---

## Topology editor & IEEE P2940 evaluation tool

This implementation provides a framework for querying real-time data from robot systems, visualizing their topologies, and approximating agility metrics. Developed to support both simulated and real robot systems, the framework includes tools for importing robot system descriptions, processing topology information, and managing device characteristics.

Key features:
- Real-Time Data Querying: Designed for real-time operation in ROS2 environments, the framework retrieves up-to-date device data from simulated robot systems.
- Topology Visualization: The application visualizes the topology of robot systems based on real-time data, offering insights into device connections and characteristics.
- Structured Data Storage: Robot system data is stored in a structured format, enabling organized access and further analysis of system components.
- Agility Metric Calculation: This framework is prepared to receive agility calculation metrics, allowing for an approximation of agility based on stored system characteristics. It is designed with future agility standards in mind to facilitate transition to standardized agility calculations.
This implementation serves as a robust foundation for managing, visualizing, and analyzing robot systems with real-time agility insights and adaptability to future metric standards.

see more: [Topology editor & IEEE P2940 evaluation tool](https://tdk.bme.hu/conference/VIK/2024/sessions/robot/paper/Robotrendszerek-agilitasanak-szamitasa-valos)

## ROS2 workspace configurator tool

This implementation extends Rviz 2 to include a user-friendly configuration menu. This menu is designed as a centralized interface for managing and visualizing network devices and robots within a single system.

Key features:
- Device and Robot Management: Add network devices and robots directly from the menu, allowing for easy integration into the system.
- Connection Management: Establish and terminate connections between devices and robots through a straightforward interface that allows for selecting and configuring interfaces.
- System Export: Export the current system setup directly from the menu, making it easy to share or deploy configurations across environments.
- Configuration Save and Load: Save specific configurations and load them back into the environment when needed, enabling flexible setup restoration.
This extension enhances Rviz 2's functionality by integrating network and robotic components into a cohesive configuration environment.- 

see more: [ROS2 workspace configurator tool](https://tdk.bme.hu/conference/VIK/2024/sessions/robot/paper/Konfiguracio-menedzsment-halozati)

